# NetworkOptimization-IntegerLinearProgramming-CPLEX

In a public transportation network, stations are nodes connected by links such as bus lines or rail facilities. Passengers are routing within the network to reach their destinations. With known Origin-Destination (OD) flows, in the optimal situation, we assume all passengers take the shortest path from origin to destination so that the total passenger distance is minimum. The aim of this work is to identify the best network flow distribution based on shortest paths to minimize total passenger distance at status quo; further, if a transfer station is removed from the network due to special events or major maintenance, we need to identify how passengers will reroute within the network and which links and nodes will expect flow increase. 
To solve this spatial optimization problem, I build a mathematical model named Shortest Path Network (SPN) model, and solve it using linear programming in CPLEX. The study case is the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) metro network with 91 stations, with station-to-station passenger flow in October 2015. The distance matrix is obtained as well. All shortest paths and flow distributions are simultaneously solved to optimality within 12 seconds using CPLEX 12 on an Intel i-7 processor paired with 16 GB of RAM. The optimization results present shortest path for each OD pair, the amount of flows on each link, and amount of flows pass through each node. In an event of a transfer station is removed, the flow distribution is re-optimized; by comparing the difference of node flow and link flow between the scenario and status quo, we can identify the nodes and links that experience flow increase in the unfavorable event. It indicates that, in the unfavorable event where a transfer station is removed, these identified nodes and links would expect and prepare for higher passenger volume.
For example, below figure visualizes when transfer station #4 is removed from the network, its directly connected station #35 hosts 35,866 more passengers than usual, some nearby indirectly connected stations #3 #7 #17 host 5,300 to 47,405 more passengers, even a faraway station #2 experiences 32 more passengers although the increase is minor compared to others.
